Hello Friends, my name is Sumit Choudhary and welcome to my channel.
my INSTAGRAM Id    :   motorcar.in    please message for your querries.
In this video we will talk about "Zero Depreciation"
because whenever we are getting insurance for car
then you will hear this term from insurance agents
that you should take Zero Dep or Nil Dep
in this video we will understand in detail Zero Depreciation / Nil Depreciation
friends Zero Dep is a type of "Add-on" on your insurance policy
Add on means Additional Top up which you buy on your policy
it can be taken only when you opt for "First Party Insurance"
now I have already uploaded a video on 1st Party insurance and 3rd party ins
in which all details have been covered minutely
involving all the risk of your cars covered and
link of the video is in description box and in i-Button above
even if you will search on youtube my video will be on top
that video will give you deep insight what you are loosing in insurance
but just to give you an overview, in third party insurance
if I have a  car and I hit/damaged some 3rd person"s car
or if I damaged his property/car or any other loss
that loss of 3rd person is covered under 3rd Party Insurance.
in First Party insurance, all benefit of 3rd party insurance will be same
even my own car damage in accident will be covered
that is the big difference in 1st Party Ins and 3rd Party ins
third party is a compulsion and you dont have a choice
if you want to drive on indian roads as per law
First party insurance is your choice
law does not bound you for that, its optional
so suppose you get a "1st Party Insurance"
and your own car damage is covered under the policy
but during claim settlement company dont pay you all money
and uses a term "Depreciation" for that
so now what is "Depreciation"
suppose you buy and product from the market today
so with time there will be wear and tear in the product.
and with its usage, wear and tear will increase
may be some material loss or physical damage
so these all losses are called depreciation
which ultimately results in reduction in value of product.
so on the same lines, if my car get hit in accident
then all the parts that my car presently have in it
would have suffered some or other depreciation already befor accident.
insurance company do not pay me for that depreciation to me
suppose my car had a spare part of value Rs. 100
and for that part company would have set some depreciation loss %
lets say 30% depreciation after one year of usage.
and my car meets and accident after 1 year
so insurance company will only give me remaining Rs. 70
while I had to pay Rs. 100
and that too when i have insured my car damage under 1st party ins
so why to give me only Rs.70 and why not full Rs. 100
so to cover this gap between these values
Insurance Companies offered an "Add on" named Zero Depreciation
and to get that you need to pay extra premium over First Party Insurance.
so that if by mistake our vehicle meets some accident.
Depreciation won't be counted during claim settlement.
but there is a time limit upto what you can take this "Add-On"
If you buy a new vehicle today
you can take Zero Depreciation for next 5 years.
so that you don need to worry about any damage for next 5 years
Zero Depreciation covers this additional financial risk of yours
but you need to consider 2 3 points in this
One point is Bonus Point
or generally called "No Claim Bonus"/NCB
to understand this lets say I got an Insurance
and this year may car got no damage in the whole year
so i dint take any claim from the insurance company
and ultimately I saved precious money of Insurance Company
or I  might have taken back more than premium amount in claim
suppose I took First Party insurance in Rs. 30000.
and I took accidental claim of Rs. 40,000
so company paid me more than I paid to the company
My new INSTAGRAM id:   motorcar.in   Please follow me for quick answers on your querries
So insurance company made a Reward Policy for them who dont claim any money in whole year.
so that I who saved Company's money will be benefitted some way
so suppose I dint take any claim this year term
and when I will renew my Insurance Policy next year
there will be a component in the policy premium
named "Vehicle Own Damage"
I wont have to  pay some percentage of that component next year.
and it keeps on increasing every year like 20%,then 30% , 40%
and it will go upto 50% of Own Damage Component.
so it is some sort of Rebate on Own Damage Component only
and this is generally known as No Claim Bonus.
and few years back you could claim at max twice an year
of any type of damage in your car.
But IRDAI, regulatory authority of insurance in India has
has brought in new amendment
and you can claim any number of times you suffered loss in vehicle.
earlier it used to feel like a restriction on claims
thats why when earlier we used to get small damage in car
we had to avoid taking claims of that
so that if tomorrow you met some big accident
it would not be covered under this 2 time policy
but today that restriction has been lifted off.
and no more you are bound in limited claims
and you can claims 365 claims in 365 days for sake of possibility
this was all about Zero Dep, if still you have some doubt
Please ask me on my Instagram Id for quick answers
My instagram Id :  motorcar.in
and please watch "First Party Insurance vs Third Party Insurance" for
better clarity on the subject topic
or you can ask me in the comment section
if you really liked my video, please press the like button an Subscribe to the channel
Thankyou so much for watching...Jai Hind ...Jai Bharat